Set up your company for success with Docker | Docker Docs
Gordon
Gordon, your AI assistant for Docker docs
Search
Start a new chat
When enabled, Gordon considers the current page you're viewing
to provide more relevant answers.
Share feedback
Answers are generated based on the documentation.
Back
Guides
Get started
Manuals
Reference
Set up your company for success with Docker
Get the most out of Docker by streamlining workflows, standardizing development environments, and ensuring smooth deployments across your company.
Ask Gordon
Copy Markdown
View Markdown
Table of contents
Docker's tools provide a scalable, secure platform that empowers your
developers to create, ship, and run applications faster. As an administrator,
you can streamline workflows, standardize development environments, and ensure
smooth deployments across your organization.
By configuring Docker products to suit your company's needs, you can optimize
performance, simplify user management, and maintain control over resources.
This guide helps you set up and configure Docker products to maximize
productivity and success for your team while meeting compliance and security
policies.
Who’s this for?
Administrators responsible for managing Docker environments within their
organization
IT leaders looking to streamline development and deployment workflows
Teams aiming to standardize application environments across multiple users
Organizations seeking to optimize their use of Docker products for greater
scalability and efficiency
Organizations with a
Docker Business subscription
What you’ll learn
Why signing into your company's Docker organization provides access to usage
data and enhanced functionality
How to standardize Docker Desktop versions and settings to create a consistent
baseline for all users, while allowing flexibility for advanced developers
Strategies for implementing Docker's security configurations to meet company
IT and software development security requirements without hindering developer productivity
Features covered
This guide covers the following Docker features:
Organizations
: The core structure
for managing your Docker environment, grouping users, teams, and image
repositories. Your organization was created with your subscription and is
managed by one or more owners. Users signed into the organization are
assigned seats based on the purchased subscription.
Enforce sign-in
:
By default, Docker Desktop doesn't require sign-in. You can configure
settings to enforce this and ensure your developers sign in to your
Docker organization.
SSO
: Without SSO,
user management in a Docker organization is manual. Setting
up an SSO connection between your identity provider and Docker ensures
compliance with your security policy and automates user provisioning. Adding
SCIM further automates user provisioning and de-provisioning.
General and security settings: Configuring key settings ensures smooth
onboarding and usage of Docker products within your environment. You can also
enable security features based on your company's specific security needs.
Who needs to be involved
Docker organization owner: Must be involved in the process and is required
for several key steps
DNS team: Needed during the SSO setup to verify the company domain
MDM team: Responsible for distributing Docker-specific configuration files to
developer machines
Identity Provider team: Required for configuring the identity provider and
establishing the SSO connection during setup
Development lead: A development lead with knowledge of Docker configurations
to help establish a baseline for developer settings
IT team: An IT representative familiar with company desktop policies to
assist with aligning Docker configuration to those policies
Infosec: A security team member with knowledge of company development
security policies to help configure security features
Docker testers: A small group of developers to test the new settings and
configurations before full deployment
Tools integration
This guide covers integration with:
Okta
Entra ID SAML 2.0
Azure Connect (OIDC)
MDM solutions like Intune
Communication and information gathering
Communicate with your developers and IT teams
Before rolling out Docker Desktop across your organization, coordinate with key stakeholders to ensure a smooth transition.
Notify Docker Desktop users
You may already have Docker Desktop users within your company. Some steps in
this onboarding process may affect how they interact with the platform.
Communicate early with users to inform them that:
They'll be upgraded to a supported version of Docker Desktop as part of the subscription onboarding
Settings will be reviewed and optimized for productivity
They'll need to sign in to the company's Docker organization using their
business email to access subscription benefits
Engage with your MDM team
Device management solutions, such as Intune and Jamf, are commonly used for
software distribution across enterprises. These tools are typically managed by a dedicated MDM team.
Engage with this team early in the process to:
Understand their requirements and lead time for deploying changes
Coordinate the distribution of configuration files
Several setup steps in this guide require JSON files, registry keys, or .plist
files to be distributed to developer machines. Use MDM tools to deploy these configuration files and ensure their integrity.
Identify Docker organizations
Some companies may have more than one
Docker organization
created. These
organizations may have been created for specific purposes, or may not be
needed anymore.
If you suspect your company has multiple Docker organizations:
Survey your teams to see if they have their own organizations
Contact your Docker Support to get a list of organizations with users whose
emails match your domain name
Gather requirements
Settings Management
lets you preset numerous configuration parameters for Docker Desktop.
Work with the following stakeholders to establish your company's baseline
configuration:
Docker organization owner
Development lead
Information security representative
Review these areas together:
Security features and
enforcing sign-in
for Docker Desktop users
Additional Docker products included in your subscriptions
To view the parameters that can be preset, see
Configure Settings Management
.
Optional: Meet with the Docker Implementation team
The Docker Implementation team can help you set up your organization,
configure SSO, enforce sign-in, and configure Docker Desktop.
To schedule a meeting, email
successteam@docker.com
.
Finalize plans and begin setup
Send finalized settings files to the MDM team
After reaching an agreement with the relevant teams about your baseline and
security configurations as outlined in the previous section, configure Settings Management either via
Docker Home
or with an
admin-settings.json
file
.
Once the file is ready, collaborate with your MDM team to deploy your chosen
settings, along with your chosen method for
enforcing sign-in
.
Important
Test this first with a small number of Docker Desktop developers to verify the functionality works as expected before deploying more widely.
Manage your organizations
If you have more than one organization, consider either
consolidating them
into one organization
or creating a
Docker company
to manage multiple
organizations.
Begin setup
Set up single sign-on and domain verification
Single sign-on (SSO) lets developers authenticate using their identity
providers (IdPs) to access Docker. SSO is available for a whole company and all associated organizations, or an individual organization that has a Docker
Business subscription. For more information, see the
documentation
.
You can also enable
SCIM
for further automation of provisioning and deprovisioning of users.
Set up Docker product entitlements included in the subscription
Docker Build Cloud
significantly reduces
build times, both locally and in CI, by providing a dedicated remote builder
and shared cache. Powered by the cloud, developer time and local resources are
freed up so your team can focus on more important things, like innovation.
To get started,
set up a cloud builder
.
Docker Scout
is a solution for proactively enhancing
your software supply chain security. By analyzing your images, Docker Scout
compiles an inventory of components, also known as a Software Bill of Materials
(SBOM). The SBOM is matched against a continuously updated vulnerability
database to pinpoint security weaknesses. To get started, see
Quickstart
.
Testcontainers Cloud
allows
developers to run containers in the cloud, removing the need to run heavy
containers on your local machine.
Docker Hardened Images
are minimal, secure, and production-ready container base and application images maintained by Docker.
Designed to reduce vulnerabilities and simplify compliance, DHIs integrate
easily into your existing Docker-based workflows with little to no retooling
required.
Ensure you're running a supported version of Docker Desktop
Warning
This step could affect the experience for users on older versions of Docker
Desktop.
Existing users may be running outdated or unsupported versions of
Docker Desktop. All users should update to a supported version. Docker Desktop
versions released within the past 6 months from the latest release are supported.
Use an MDM solution to manage the version of Docker Desktop for users. Users
may also get Docker Desktop directly from Docker or through a company software
portal.
Testing
SSO and SCIM testing
Test SSO and SCIM by signing in to Docker Desktop or Docker Hub with the email
address linked to a Docker account that is part of the verified domain.
Developers who sign in using their Docker usernames remain unaffected by the
SSO and SCIM setup.
Important
Some users may need CLI based logins to Docker Hub, and for this they will
need a
personal access token (PAT)
.
Test Registry Access Management and Image Access Management
Warning
Communicate with your users before proceeding, as this step will impact all
existing users signing into your Docker organization.
If you plan to use
Registry Access Management (RAM)
and/or
Image Access Management (IAM)
:
Ensure your test developer signs in to Docker Desktop using their
organization credentials
Have them attempt to pull an unauthorized image or one from a disallowed
registry via the Docker CLI
Verify they receive an error message indicating that the registry is
restricted by the organization
Deploy settings and enforce sign in to test group
Deploy the Docker settings and enforce sign-in for a small group of test users
via MDM. Have this group test their development workflows with containers on
Docker Desktop and Docker Hub to ensure all settings and the sign-in enforcement
function as expected.
Test Docker Build Cloud capabilities
Have one of your Docker Desktop testers
connect to the cloud builder you created and use it to build
.
Test Testcontainers Cloud
Have a test developer
connect to Testcontainers Cloud
and run a container in
the cloud to verify the setup is working correctly.
Verify Docker Scout monitoring of repositories
Check the
Docker Scout dashboard
to confirm that
data is being properly received for the repositories where Docker Scout has
been enabled.
Verify access to Docker Hardened Images
Have a test developer attempt to
pull a Docker Hardened Image
to confirm that
the team has proper access and can integrate these images into their workflows.
Deploy your Docker setup
Warning
Communicate with your users before proceeding, and confirm that your IT and
MDM teams are prepared to handle any unexpected issues, as these steps will
affect all existing users signing into your Docker organization.
Enforce SSO
Enforcing SSO means that anyone who has a Docker profile with an email address
that matches your verified domain must sign in using your SSO connection. Make
sure the Identity provider groups associated with your SSO connection cover all
the developer groups that you want to have access to the Docker subscription.
For instructions on how to enforce SSO, see
Enforce SSO
.
Deploy configuration settings and enforce sign-in to users
Have the MDM team deploy the configuration files for Docker to all users.
Next steps
Congratulations, you've successfully completed the admin implementation process
for Docker.
To continue optimizing your Docker environment:
Review your
organization's usage data
to track adoption
Monitor
Docker Scout findings
for security insights
Explore
additional security features
to enhance your configuration
Edit this page
Request changes
Table of contents