Overview of the Docker workshop | Docker Docs
Gordon
Gordon, your AI assistant for Docker docs
Search
Start a new chat
When enabled, Gordon considers the current page you're viewing
to provide more relevant answers.
Share feedback
Answers are generated based on the documentation.
Back
Get started
Guides
Manuals
Reference
Overview of the Docker workshop
Ask Gordon
Copy Markdown
View Markdown
Table of contents
This 45-minute workshop contains step-by-step instructions on how to get started with Docker. This workshop shows you how to:
Build and run an image as a container.
Share images using Docker Hub.
Deploy Docker applications using multiple containers with a database.
Run applications using Docker Compose.
Note
For a quick introduction to Docker and the benefits of containerizing your
applications, see
Getting started
.
What is a container?
A container is a sandboxed process running on a host machine that is isolated from all other processes running on that host machine. That isolation leverages
kernel namespaces and cgroups
,
features that have been in Linux for a long time. Docker makes these capabilities approachable and easy to use. To summarize, a container:
Is a runnable instance of an image. You can create, start, stop, move, or delete a container using the Docker API or CLI.
Can be run on local machines, virtual machines, or deployed to the cloud.
Is portable (and can be run on any OS).
Is isolated from other containers and runs its own software, binaries, configurations, etc.
If you're familiar with
chroot
, then think of a container as an extended version of
chroot
. The filesystem comes from the image. However, a container adds additional isolation not available when using chroot.
What is an image?
A running container uses an isolated filesystem. This isolated filesystem is provided by an image, and the image must contain everything needed to run an application - all dependencies, configurations, scripts, binaries, etc. The image also contains other configurations for the container, such as environment variables, a default command to run, and other metadata.
Next steps
In this section, you learned about containers and images.
Next, you'll containerize a simple application and get hands-on with the concepts.
Containerize an application
Edit this page
Request changes
Table of contents